The primary goal of this project was to develop a tool or app that allows users to view current and previous stock prices in addition to predicting future stock prices.  While this goal could have been achieved in Python or C, I chose to implement it in R because I have been working in R for a few years and find the learning curve slightly easier than that of other languages.  While R is not the most powerful tool for web/app development, it is one of the best programs for analysis and modeling.  Thus, I  thought the modeling for this web application would be best suited in R.  

Some of the motivation for this project stems from my interest in investing and desired success for my own stocks.  Although it’s incredibly difficult to predict the stock market and greater economy, especially in this volatile time, I think it’s interesting and fun to develop mathematical models that perhaps come near to the real market.  

Diving into the code for the app itself, we can see the packages needed for the app to run are tidyverse, Shiny and quantmod.  Just beyond the required packages is the ui.  The ui contains all the necessary information for the user to directly interact with the contents and code of the website, without needing any coding skills.  Within the ui, I’ve defined the title of the webpage (line 13), the  page layout type (line 14) and the contents of the side panel (lines 15-19).  The side panel has a note (line 16), a symbol input (line 17), an iteration input (line 18) and date inputs (line 19).  Past the side panel, there is a main panel (line 24) which has three different tabs: Current Stock Chart, One Prediction and Iterated Predictions.  

After the ui comes the server (line 34), which acts a set of instructions for the computer when users change inputs on the web application.  The server is divided into three output sections: output$current_plot (line 35), output$predict_plot (line 41) and output$predictions_plot (line 67), which correspond to the Current Stock Chart, One Prediction and Iterated Predictions tabs respectively. 

In output$current_plot (line 35) I’ve created a table, called current_stock_data (line 36), which pulls finance data from Yahoo Finance based on the user’s symbol and date inputs.  This data is then used to create a chart of the prices and volumes for the desired stock symbol and dates (line 37). 

In output$predict_plot (line 41), I have again fetched the Yahoo Finance data corresponding to the user’s desired inputs and called this predict_stock_data (line 42).  Then, I have modified the returns such that they are now the log of the returns, for readability purposes (lines 44-46).  After this, I created four new variables: newsymb (line 48), mean_log_returns (line 49), sd_log_returns (line 50) and price (line 51).  newsymb was created as a variable replacement for the string of the symbol input, mean_log_returns is the mean of the log of the returns, similarly sd_log_returns is the standard deviation of the log of the returns and price is the initial price of the stock in a vector of length 504 (the vector is length 504 because there are 252 active trading days per year and we are predicting for two years).  The for loop (line 53) allows for the population of the vector with random values within a distribution where the mean is the mean_log_returns and the standard deviation is sd_log_returns.  I then created a table that can be easily plotted, called random_data (lines 57-59), based on the randomly generated prices and indexed days.  After that, I plotted the data, where day was mapped to x and price was mapped to y (lines 61-63).  

The last output, output$predictions_plot (line 67) is very similar to the previous.  Differences start to occur on line 79, where I set the seed, or iterations of the simulation, to the user’s desired value.  I then created a matrix with 504 rows and as many columns as the user’s input value for iterations.  The for loops (lines 82 -87) then populated the matrix with randomly generated data.  A more easily plowable matrix was created (lines 89-92).  Finally, the randomly generated simulations were then plotted using ggplot.  